Hello everybody and welcome back.
At the moment our board is lacking those new pieces we've made so without any further ado what we're
going to do first of all is just append them into the scene.
Now you can do this several ways.
But since I've got several items to bring in wasn't going to do is I'm going to go to my file explorer
and bring them in that way.
Okay so I've opened up my low poly chest certain to go into my models into my pieces.
So we need the king sized drag that's in when we do that we can appendage into the scene and find the
appropriate one.
We just want the king.
We go.
He's in the scene.
Now we can just repeat that step for the rest of our pieces.
So we need the Queen we need our rook and finally our knight and there we go with all of the pieces and
I'm going to whiz round to the top of our board and then start placing them so I don't know which ones
selected at the moment.
So that's press control and space to come out go back into layout mode so I can move things around.
I'm going to turn on lookdev because we've got color of pieces.
It's going to be quite hard to see what's going on otherwise.
So we have let's see what do we have here.
I can't see with this particular selection it looks like everything has been moved into the black pieces.
So that's something to bear in mind I'm going to move them out in the hierarchy at the moment until
we move them back in.
And we've also brought in a mirror point so interestingly if we move that around we can see our knight
is moving or half on Knight is moving around as well.
So whilst I'm here I'm going to select my knight go down to the modifiers themselves and apply that
modifier.
So it's not an issue.
And then we can get rid of our mirror point that's going to head through that's brilliant.
So we have our king now if we turn on incremental moving we should be able to place these relatively
easy.
The King I believe goes on its own square. What piece.
do I have selected here, Queen.
This one is going to be the knight.
We're going to have two of those and we'll use Alt and D to duplicate them since they are the same essentially
the same piece and then I'll be able to move it to the appropriate location and then the final one is
the rook.
Now occasionally do have to click several times to go get the appropriate piece if multiple things are
on top of one another.
In this particular case it hasn't really mattered because we can just move them into place one at a
time and then we go we've got all of the other pieces in the anything I would say here is we've got
these two here I'm going to rotate them on the Z axis by 90.
It's going to move in correctly.
However I want to use individual origins using individual origins means they will just spin about their
own spot through the points in this case of their origin so rotate Z 90.
There we go.
They're all facing forward.
Perfect.
OK.
So I'm not gonna bring up challenge slide for this next bit.
What I'd like you to do is do the black pieces themselves.
And then once you've done that also think about how you might pose your scene.
Are we going to leave it like this or are we going to be a bit more dynamic and perhaps have it mid
game so go ahead.
Pause video now and give that a go.
Okay everybody Welcome back.
So there's a few things we need to do here.
I'm going to go ahead grab these new pieces every single one of them.
Yep that's correct.
And normal duplicate them.
And then just move them to the other side of the board and take them all on the Z axis by 180 because
we still got origin's turned on individual origins on the pivot point.
They've all just flipped around.
So these ones here can all be moved into the collection black pieces and these ones can all be moved
into the collection.
White pieces okay.
These ones need to get a material applied to them the quickest way of doing that is to select all of
them and then have the active selected one be another black piece and then you can go control an L..
And that's going to make links in this case to materials.
And there we go we've colored those in now we haven't got these parented in the same structure as
everything else at the moment the black pieces.
They're not parents to the black pieces up here.
So what we're going to do here is we've got the bishop the bishop and the black pawns all parented
which is fine.
So we just need to select the black pieces as our last piece which I think is hidden from view at the
moment.
So we're gonna need to turn that on and the best view in the outline to do this in is if we go to the
scenes layouts.
Here we go.
So now we put our chessboard.
Our king.
All of these new pieces here.
But then we also have the black and white pieces.
So let's go ahead make sure we've got all of these selected and I think there's some renaming that needs
to be done as well at some point under the UN hide the black pieces.
Empty.
Select it in the outline.
Because that's the easiest place to select it.
Then you control and P
And parent it to that object
Now you may have it moving so we need to make sure that we keep the original transform.
Otherwise it would disappear like that.
And we need to do the same thing here with these pieces.
I'm just going to go along and select all of them.
And in fact I have missed one this Bishop here.
And again I'm going to select the white pieces in the outline.
We need to um Hide it first then select it will go lighter orange selected, Active selected control
and P, object keep the transform.
There we go then I can hide the white and black pieces empty again.
So I think that's everything sorted out there.
I'm going to come to the king itself here.
It's called King and the other one is called King 001 so I'm going to call this one king white and then
Queen white and I'm gonna go round and speed up the video here and just named them appropriately.
Okay.
So we're almost done here.
If done all the naming I have done a quick bit to research the king and queen actually live in different
places.
There was me thinking I knew and I didn't it's the Queen that goes on that same color you can tell it's
been a while since I've played chess.
Okay so I've got everything all sorted here.
And we could actually start an opening move let's move this one not in the Z direction so maybe there
is one to here I know it's a standard opening this.
So that's pretty much sorted.
And then of course you could add some random twists to everything as well if you wanted to.
So I'm just going to carry on.
So we need to protect our pawn okay.
So that's pretty good as a starting point the pieces are in a bit more of an interesting position.
Okay.
Brilliant.
How did you guys get on.
How did you end up setting up your boards.
Did you make the same mistake I made when it came to placing the pieces lots of different things to
go on here.
I'm really happy with how mine's organized it's not plain and boring with everything all lined up.
So this is a great start and we're about to set up our cameras for rendering and we'll do that in the
next video.